So far, we have created a virtual machine on Google Cloud.
We downloaded the source code of our system and we have done a build of our system.
The next thing that we are going to do is that we will run our system and we will understand its current
architecture and its functionality.
It has very minimal functionality in terms of business logic, as our real goal is to focus on technical
aspects and architecture of our system as we move along.
We will enhance this architecture to meet large scale system requirements.
So our system right now, it has got over that it has got a single page application which can be used
as a mobile application and we have services, then we have a database.
Now it is almost a three tiered architecture.
The only element that we have added over here is that instead of one single monolithic service or business
application, we have multiple services.
If we expand our service part of our architecture diagram, then it will look like this.
Now at this service layer, it begins to look like service oriented architecture, because now, instead
of one single service, we have got multiple services.
The other parts of our system, so let's say database is quite simple.
It's still a single instance that every service needs to communicate with all our clients, be it their
application or single page application.
They both communicate with the individual services, so in that sense, they are simple that they are
communicating with individual services.
But the problem is that we have all these different board numbers that our clients need to remember.
So we have all these different port numbers because we are running our services on the same virtual
machine.
If we run them on a different machine.
So let's say if we put all these services on different, different machines, then we can run all of
them on standard boards.
But in that case, the IP addresses will change.
So in either case, all our services will have a different origin.
So that's a problem for all our clients and even for those services which make internal calls.
So let's have this order service has to make an internal call to inventory service.
So that's an internal flight.
So he had also the order service needs to know on which host and port inventory service is running.
So that is a problem for all airplanes.
All such things make configuring individual components a very complex exercise.
We will see this issue in a bit when we run our system.
But before we run our system, let's understand what technologies we have used for building our system.
It will help us in appreciating and understanding the system better for single page application.
We have used reactors for the web application we have used by then Django framework for services.
We have used Java along with spring framework and springboard for the database.
We have used Postgres Haskell idioms.
First, we will run our system to better appreciate its current architecture and to understand its functionality.
Once we are done with that, we will look at these individual components in a little more detail.
We will look at what technology choices we had for each of these components and why we have chosen what
we have chosen.
But before that, let's run our system.